---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

# Dow Jones News Fund Data Journalism and Storytelling Training 2025

## Investigate Your Community

During the week, students will work on a project called Investigate Your
Community to produce detailed story pitches relevant to their summer
internship positions.

The goal is to use this week to prepare you with a few story pitches so
you can work immediately at your internship.

Investigate Your Community will equip students to:

Produce detailed story proposals Use data to find stories Create data
visualizations Present data and multimedia on a simple website Utilize
basic investigative reporting techniques on the beat Understand the
value of diverse communities and information sources

At the end of the week, each student will produce a basic website that
aggregates socio-economic and business data, and a list of reported
story proposals. The interns’ newsrooms have provided data or
suggestions for data sources, which you will see below.

[**Getting Started**]{.underline}

Each person has a folder with starter code and data, along with a memo
from their newsroom. You will find starter code and data for your
projects here: [DJNF GitHub
repositories](https://github.com/orgs/djnf-data-2025/repositories)

[**Guidance on assignments**]{.underline}

**Sunday, June 1, 11:59 p.m.** A one-paragraph story idea. –Submit as a
Google Doc or an R Markdown document. Remember to allow permission
sharing for Google Docs. This will reflect that you have read the memo
and guidance from your newsroom (see below) and formulated a story idea
based on a preliminary review of the data.

**Monday, June 2, 11:59 p.m.** Draft a story pitch memo. –Submit as a
Google Doc or a link to an R Markdown document on your GitHub account. A
minimum of 400 words, building on the story idea paragraph, that
incorporates some of the best practices in pitching a story and
generally follows the story pitch template and process as described in
Monday’s lecture. This draft pitch will reflect a deeper exploration of
the assigned data and hopefully some independent research. The best
story pitches will have some context about recent coverage of this
topic.

**Wednesday, June 4, 11:59 p.m.** Second draft of story pitch memos due.
–Submit as an R Markdown document, providing a link to your GitHub
account. A minimum of 600 words, this will build on Monday’s work. It
will include at least one graphic, building on the Tuesday graphics
workshop, and some summary data analysis, building on the data workshops
since Sunday. This pitch should include summary tables and basic
analysis, along with questions and a discussion of potential holes. The
best pitches will cover two topics and have a rendered page from your
GitHub account.

**Saturday, June 7, 10 a.m.** Present your website and story pitch to
the group. –This will be a webpage rendered from your GitHub account
that includes at least three graphics as well as several summary tables
and analysis. Two separate story pitches will be presented, along with
questions and a discussion of potential holes. Optional to have embedded
video in the page.

Here are some examples from last year’s DJNF data journalism training:

-   Hannah Rosenberger, at ASI Media/Counselor magazine, produced this
    analysis on name, image and likeness trends:
    <https://hrosenberger.github.io/ASI-NIL-Project/>

-   Shifra Dayak, an intern at the Connecticut Mirror, produced this
    analysis of environment spill data:
    <https://shifradayak.github.io/DJNF_Merrill/ct_env_spills.html>.

-   Michael Zhang, an intern at the Houston Landing, explored local
    election data:
    <https://michaelzhangreporter.github.io/Houston_Campaign_Finance/>
